Journaling my life at work using Github
=======================================


Following this post[0] on lobste.rs and the interest that some
manifested after I mentioned it on twitter, I wanted to write about
something I'm doing for about 6 months now which is journaling my days
at work.

It started while chatting with my friend Flavien[1] who was asking how
he could have a TODO list with reccuring tasks.

Half-jockingly I said use Github issues with a template[2]. Thinking
more about it I thought it could be a great idea and I should try this
in practice.


My daily routine
----------------

Regarding my daily tasks, I've mostly been a low-tech person with pen
and paper crossing out what I had done. But this process is quite
inefficient regarding reccuring tasks. Also keeping up with what was
left to do from the other days is not really optimal. Tried some
TODO/GTD apps too but it didn't catch.

These days I try to keep a journal of what I do at work using Github
issues. I chose Github since I use it everyday so I figured this would
be a great place to store this "me vs. work" stuff.

Every morning I open a new issue in a private repo with the date as
the title. The repository is not public, perhaps one day it will. I've
got mixed feelings with opening it, it's my private life but
journaling in the open could be an interesting experiment too.

There is an ISSUE_TEMPLATE file in the repository. It contains my
daily routine tasks and a placeholder for what I intend to do today
and another one for tasks I did that were not planned.

The template looks like this:

    Today here are the tasks I'd like to complete:

    - [ ] Check Slack for urgencies
    - [ ] Check X status
    - [ ] Check New Relic
    - [ ] Check Sentry
    - [ ] Check Y

    I also did:

    - [ ]

So every morning with my coffee I make a quick standup with myself and
it ends up with something like:

    Today here are the tasks I'd like to complete:

    - [ ] Check Slack for urgencies
    - [ ] Check X status
    - [ ] Check New Relic
    - [ ] Check Sentry
    - [ ] Check Y
    - [ ] Project 42
        - [ ] a sub task
        - [ ] another subtask
        - [ ] and another subtask
    - [ ] Fix bug #66

    I also did:

    - [ ]

I then add a label with my current mood and if I'm working remotely or
not.

During the day I check every task I completed and eventually add
un-planned tasks. At the end of the day I'm left with:

    Today here are the tasks I'd like to complete:

    - [x] Check Slack for urgencies
    - [x] Check X status
    - [x] Check New Relic
    - [x] Check Sentry
    - [x] Check Y
    - [ ] Project 42
        - [x] a sub task
        - [x] another subtask
        - [ ] and another subtask
    - [x] Fix bug #66

    I also did:

    - [x] Free-up space on Jenkins
    - [x] Some Open source stuff
    - [x] Fixed a bug for a customer

When the day is over it's time for a bit of reflection over it and
I'll tag the issue with some labels to rate it. So far I have 12 of
them:

My labels[4]

The "productivity" labels are purely subjective, it's just how I feel
at the end of the day not how much I accomplished quantitatively. The
mood I set in the morning can be adjusted if I feel like it was not
the right one too.

I usually close the issue but leave the tab open so that I can copy
paste the unfinished tasks for the next issue.


What's next?
------------

The closed issues list is pretty nice with all the labels and the
progress bar[5] but I haven't found a real use for them yet except a
sense of completion (or not) at the end of the day.

Since I have an API with pre-formatted data at hand using Github, I'm
thinking about making a visualisation interface with some graphs and
try to get some insights. It would be a nice side-project to play with
some new front-end tools too (Purescript I'm looking at you).

The idea would be not only to have a fancy TODO list but also to try
to self-quantitize my life as a worker. Trying to extract tendencies
from this data would be great. For example if it's been 20 days I've
been setting my Mood to Bad and my Productivity to Bad then perhaps
it's time for a deeper reflection and a big change, this kind of
stuff. It could also help for the 1-to-1s with my manager perhaps.

I also thought about some elisp or a script I could write to automate
my process a bit but I'm not sure it would really add value. My issue
routine is a moment of reflection, I'm not sure I want to speed it up
right now.

That's it for my daily routine. If you have thoughts, comments or
ideas of improvement don't hesitate to open an issue here[3].


[0] https://lobste.rs/s/j9dkuv/do_you_journal_about_your_workday_why_what
[1] https://twitter.com/fcogez
[2] https://github.com/blog/2111-issue-and-pull-request-templates
[3] https://github.com/julienXX/julienxx.github.com/issues
[4] http://julienblanchard.com/assets/images/labels.png
[5] http://julienblanchard.com/assets/images/issues.png

-------

Last update: 25 July, 2017
